---
layout: publication
title: "BLoc: CSI-based accurate localization for BLE tags"
short_title: "BLoc"
tags: Wireless-Sensing
cover: /data/images/pubpic/bloc.png
authors: "Roshan Ayyalasomayajula, Deepak Vasisht, Dinesh Bharadia"
conference: "CoNext 2018"
paper: /data/files/bloc_paper.pdf
slides: /data/files/bloc-ppt.pdf
video: https://www.youtube.com/embed/tC70Hs8cjwI
---

Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) tags have become very prevalent over the last decade for tracking applications in homes as well as businesses. These tags are used to track objects, navigate people, and deliver contextual advertisements. However, in spite of the wide interest in tracking BLE tags, the primary methods of tracking them are based on signal strength (RSSI) measurements. Past work has shown that such methods are inaccurate, and prone to multipath and dynamic environments. As a result, localization using Wi-Fi has moved to Channel State Information (CSI, includes both signal strength and signal phase) based localization methods. In this paper, we seek to investigate what are the challenges that prevent BLE from adopting CSI based localization methods. We identify fundamental differences at the PHY layer between BLE and Wi-Fi, that make it challenging to extend CSI based localization to BLE. We present our system, BLoc, that incorporates novel, BLE-compatible algorithms to overcome these challenges and enable an accurate, multipath-resistant localization system. Our empirical evaluation shows that BLoc can achieve a localization accuracy of 86 cm with BLE tags, a 3X improvement over a state-of-the-art baseline.
